# dopenapi

A utility for reading an OpenAPI specification and generating a deno client.

This library also contains a type heirarchy for a portion of the OpenAPI spec
which can be used to generate valid OpenAPI specifications.

## Limitations

Clients can be generated for OpenAPI specifications generated by Jsonotron but
will struggle with anything else. It's only intended to support a limited
portion of JSON schema and OpenAPI schema.

The `/components/requestBodies` will not be read. Place all schemas in the
`/components/schemas` node instead.

Parameter schemas, request bodies and response bodies must refer to a JSON type
(e.g. number, string, boolean) or a $ref to another schema. Alternatively, you
can define an 'array' type with the items property set to a JSON type or a $ref
to another schema. The possible options are shown below. In many cases this will
need to wrapped in a content > application/json > schema wrapper.

```json
{
  "simple": {
    "type": "number"
  },
  "ref": {
    "$ref": "#/components/schemas/SomeSchema"
  },
  "simpleArray": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "type": "string"
    }
  },
  "refArray": {
    "type": "array",
    "items": {
      "$ref": "#/components/schemas/SomeSchema"
    }
  }
}
```

The `/component/schemas` node can only contain record definitions or enums.
Record definitions may only define properties to a single level, however a
property can reference any other schema type.

Path parameters can only be placed in the parameters property of the path node,
they cannot be placed in the operations such as get or post. Conversely, header
parameters, query parameters and cookie parameters can only be placed in the
operations.

## Commands

Run `deno task test` to test, format and output coverage report.
